Use a single-string URLPattern for dictionaries (#2689)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-compression-dictionary.md

specified in the Use-As-Dictionary response header.

The Use-As-Dictionary response header is a Structured Field
{{STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} sf-dictionary with values for "match", "match-dest",
"ttl", "id", and "type".

### match

The "match" value of the Use-As-Dictionary header is a sf-string value
that provides the URLPattern to use for request matching
(https://urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/).

The URLPattern used for matching does not support using Regular expressions.

The following algorithm will return TRUE for a valid match pattern and FALSE
for an invalid pattern that MUST NOT be used:

1. Let MATCH be the value of "match" for the given dictionary.
1. Let URL be the URL of the dictionary request.
1. Let PATTERN be a URLPattern constructed by setting input=MATCH,

> and baseURL=BASEURL (https://urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/).

Reviewer: BASEURL has no definition in this algorithm

specified in the Use-As-Dictionary response header.

The Use-As-Dictionary response header is a Structured Field
{{STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} sf-dictionary with values for "match", "match-dest",
"ttl", "id", and "type".

### match

The "match" value of the Use-As-Dictionary header is a sf-string value
that provides the URLPattern to use for request matching
(https://urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/).

The URLPattern used for matching has some restrictions:
* Regular expressions are not supported
(https://urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/#token-type-regexp).
* The match pattern MUST be for the same {{Origin}} as the dictionary.

The following algorithm will return TRUE for a valid match pattern and FALSE
for an invalid pattern that MUST NOT be used:

1. Let MATCH be the value of "match" for the given dictionary.
1. Let URL be the URL of the dictionary request.
1. Let PATTERN be a URLPattern constructed by setting input=MATCH,
and baseURL=BASEURL (https://urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/).
1. If PATTERN parsed a regexp token then return FALSE

> (https://urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/#token-type-regexp).

Author: Thanks. switched over to it.

> 1. If the "hash" attribute of PATTERN is a non-empty string then return FALSE.

Author: I removed the hash check but there is some pretty significant costs to storing a dictionary that will never match so detecting invalid patterns at the initial storage point is preferred over storing one that can never match.

1. Let SRC be a URLPattern constructed by setting input=BASEURL.
1. If any of the "protocol", "username", "password", "hostname", or "port"
attributes of PATTERN do not match the value of the same attribute in SRC then
return FALSE.

> 1. Return True.

Author: Allowing for invalid patterns to be stored can be pretty expensive and it would be better if we can fail any cross-origin patterns at the time of storage rather than at the time of matching. The cost comes from having to store the dictionary resource (can be multiple megabytes) as well as evaluating the pattern on each request.

The origin checking matters here at the HTTP level because of cross-request compression-based encryption attacks.

> 1. Return True.

Reviewer 2: Is this difference between storing vs. not observable, such that it needs to be specified?

> 1. Return True.

Author: Good point, thanks.  I cleaned it up to do the same-origin check at match time instead of dictionary storage time and use the URLs themselves for the check instead of relying on the dictionary.

    request.
    * If DEST is not an empty string and If DEST and REQUEST_DEST are not the
    same value, return FALSE
1. Let BASEURL be the URL of the dictionary request.

> 1. LET URL represent the URL of the outbound request being checked.

Reviewer: nit: I assume this LET shouldn't be all-caps

destination.
1. Given equivalent destination precedence, the dictionary with the longest
"match" takes precedence.

> 1. Given equivalent destination, path and search precedence, the most recently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Given equivalent destination and URL precedence, the most recently
```
